# Section-8-Soccer-League


## Soccer League Project
The main goal of our project was to create a program that uses four different soccer teams and simulates them playing a season of soccer, generating random scores and matchups each week. The output of the program results in the stats of each team: wins, losses, ties, points scored, and points allowed. The program also outputs the results of each game in chronological order. This includes the temperature for the game, which team is home or away, and how many points each team scored in that specific game.

In order to do this we created three different classes for the program. We had a main class for running the program, a game class for constructing games (including a method for printing the stats for each game), and a team class for constructing our four teams (as well as a method for printing the season stats for each team). The main method starts off by instantiating the four teams, and creating an Array to store them in. These teams have no data stored yet (0 points, wins, etc). We also created an empty ArrayList for the games played. We then created an int for winter_weeks which acts as a monitor for the season schedule. A random number is generated each week for the temperature. If the temperature is equal to or below 32 degrees F, then winter_weeks increments by 1 and no game is played (too cold to play). We utilize a while loop for the entire program to check the value of winter_weeks; if winter_weeks equals 3, then the season is over and the results are printed. As long as winter_weeks is less than 3, the while loops runs. The while loop first checks the value of the temperature. As mentioned before, if the temperature is <= 32, no game is played and another temperature value is generated (assuming winter_weeks doesn't equal 3). If the temperature value is greather than 32, then winter_weeks resets to 0 because three consecuative cold weeks signals the end of the season. Team 4 is selected as an inital team to create the scheduler. We did this because it allows us to a switch statement with 3 different cases, as opposed to using a switch statement with 12 different cases (to account for each team playing a different team [3 scenarios], as well as each possibilty of said teams being home or away [4 scenarios each] 3 times 4 = 12 total scenarios). The switch statement picks a random schedule for the teams to play. For example, team 4 may be home playing against team 2 while team 1 is home playing against team 3. After this, the temperature is used to generate random scores for each game. Higher temperatures have increased bounds to account for more goals in the heat. When the scores are generated, a game object is instantiated with those values. This includes a game ID (+1 for each consecuative game), the temperature for the game, the home and away teams, and the random number of goals scored for each team. The game ID is then icremented by 2 to account for the two games played. We then used getters and setters to take the points scored and allowed in each game and add them to their respective teams. We finish the while loop by adding the instantiated games to the ArrayList, and using the recordWLT method we created for tracking the wins, losses, and ties of each team. This runs for every game and keeps track of each teams record throughout the season. When the while loop is finished, "Too cold to play" is printed three times to indicate three consecuative weeks of freezing temperature, so the season is over. The results are printed for each team by iterating through the Teams Array with an enhanced for loop, which prints the stats for each team. We also use another enhanced for loop to iterate through the games played ArrayList and print the stats for each game played.
